README.md, before:


![PostgreSQL Anonymizer](postgresql_anonymizer.banner.gif)

Anonymizing and Masking Data with PostgreSQL
===============================================================================

`postgresql_anonymizer` is an extension to mask or replace 
[personally identifiable information] (PII) or commercially sensitive data from 
a PostgreSQL database.

The projet is aiming toward a **declarative approach** of anonymization. This
means we're trying to extend PostgreSQL Data Definition Language (DDL) in
order to specify the anonymization strategy inside the table definition itself.

The extension can be used to put dynamic masks on certain users or permanently 
modify sensitive data. Various masking techniques are available : randomization, 
partial scrambling or custom rules.

Read the [Concepts] section for more details.

[Concepts]: #Concepts
[personally identifiable information]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personally_identifiable_information


Warning
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*This is projet is at an early stage of development and should used carefully.* 

I need your feedback and ideas ! Let me know what you think of this tool,how it
fits your needs and what features are missing.

You can either [open an issue] or send a message at <daamien@gmail.com>.

[open an issue]: https://gitlab.com/daamien/postgresql_anonymizer/issues

Example
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

```sql
=# CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS anon CASCADE;

=# SELECT anon.load();

=# SELECT * FROM customer;
 id  |   full_name      |   birth    |    employer   | zipcode | fk_shop
-----+------------------+------------+---------------+---------+---------
 911 | Chuck Norris     | 1940-03-10 | Texas Rangers | 75001   | 12
 112 | David Hasselhoff | 1952-07-17 | Baywatch      | 90001   | 423

=# UPDATE customer
-# SET
-#   full_name=anon.random_first_name() || ' ' || anon.random_last_name(),
-#   birth=anon.random_date_between('01/01/1920'::DATE,now()),
-#   employer=anon.random_company(),
-#   zipcode=anon.random_zip()
-# ;

=# SELECT * FROM customer;
 id  |     full_name     |   birth    |     employer     | zipcode | fk_shop
-----+-------------------+------------+------------------+---------+---------
 911 | michel Duffus     | 1970-03-24 | Body Expressions | 63824   | 12
 112 | andromache Tulip  | 1921-03-24 | Dot Darcy        | 73231   | 423
```

Declarative Data Masking
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


```sql
=# SELECT * FROM people;
  id  |      name      |   phone
------+----------------+------------
 T800 | Schwarzenegger | 0609110911
(1 row)
```

STEP 1 : Activate the masking engine

```sql
=# CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS anon CASCADE;
=# SELECT anon.mask_init();
```

STEP 2 : Declare a masked user

```sql
=# CREATE ROLE skynet;
=# COMMENT ON ROLE skynet IS 'MASKED';
```

STEP 3 : Declare the masking rules

```sql
=# COMMENT ON COLUMN people.name IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION anon.random_last_name()';

=# COMMENT ON COLUMN people.phone IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION anon.partial(phone,2,$$******$$,2)';
```

STEP 4 : Connect with the masked user

```sql
=# \! psql test -U skynet -c 'SELECT * FROM people;'
  id  |   name   |   phone
------+----------+------------
 T800 | Nunziata | 06******11
(1 row)
```

Requirements
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This extension is officially supported on PostgreSQL 9.6 and later.
It should also work on PostgreSQL 9.5 with a bit of hacking. 
See [NOTES.md](NOTES.md) for more details.

It requires an extension named `tsm_system_rows`, which is delivered by the
`postgresql-contrib` package of the main linux distributions.

Install
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### With [PGXN](https://pgxn.org/) :

```console
sudo apt install pgxnclient (or pip install pgxn)
sudo pgxn install postgresql_anonymizer
```

### From source :

```console
make
sudo make install
```


How To Use
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Load the extension in your database like this:

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS anon CASCADE;
SELECT anon.load();
```

The `load()` function will charge a default dataset of random data ( lists
names, cities, etc. ). If you want to use your own dataset, you can load
custom CSV files with `load('/path/to/custom_cvs_files/')`

**You now have access to the following functions :**

### Generic data

* anon.random_date() returns a date
* anon.random_date_between(d1,d2) returns a date between `d1` and `d2`
* anon.random_int_between(i1,i2) returns an integer between `i1` and `i2`
* anon.random_string(n) returns a TEXT value containing `n` letters

### Personal data

* anon.random_first_name() returns a generic first name
* anon.random_last_name() returns a generic last name
* anon.random_email() returns a valid email address
* anon.random_zip() returns a 5-digit code
* anon.random_city() returns an existing city
* anon.random_city_in_country(c) returns a city in country `c`
* anon.random_region() returns an existing region
* anon.random_region_in_country(c) returns a region in country `c`
* anon.random_country() returns a country
* anon.random_phone(p) return a 8-digit phone with `p` as a prefix

### Company data

* anon.random_company() returns a generic company name
* anon.random_iban() returns a valid IBAN
* anon.random_siret() returns a valid SIRET
* anon.random_siren() returns a valid SIREN


Upgrade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently there's no way to upgrade easily from a version to another.
The operation `ALTER EXTENSION ... UPDATE ...` is not supported.

You need to drop and recreate the extension after every upgrade.


Concepts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Two main strategies are used:

* **Dynamic Masking** offers an altered view of the real data without
  modifying it. Some users may only read the masked data, others may access
  the authentic version.

* **Permanent Destruction** is the definitive action of substituting the
  sensitive information with uncorrelated data. Once processed, the authentic
  data cannot be retrieved.

The data can be altered with several techniques:

1. **Deletion** or **Nullification** simply removes data.

2. **Static Subtitution** consistently replaces the data with a generic
   values. For instance: replacing all values of TEXT column with the value
   "CONFIDENTIAL".

3. **Variance** is the action of "shifting" dates and numeric values. For
   example, by applying a +/- 10% variance to a salary column, the dataset will
   remain meaningful.

4. **Encryption** uses an encryption algorithm and requires a private key. If
   the key is stolen, authentic data can be revealed.

5. **Shuffling** mixes values within the same columns. This method is open to
   being reversed if the shuffling algorithm can be deciphered.

6. **Randomization** replace sensitive data with **random-but-plausible**
   values. The goal is to avoid any identification from the data record while
   remaining suitable for testing, data analysis and data processing.

7. **Partial scrambling** is similar to static substitution but leaves out some
   part of the data. For instance : a credit card number can be replaced by
   '40XX XXXX XXXX XX96'

8. **Custom rules** are designed to alter data following specific needs. For
   instance, randomizing simultanously a zipcode and a city name while keeping
   them coherent.

For now, this extension is especially focusing on  **randomization** and
**Partial Scrambling** and **Custom Rules** but it should be easy to implement
other methods as well.




Performance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

So far, we've done very few performance tests. Depending on the size of your
data set and number of columns your need to anonymize, you might end up with a
very slow process.

Here's some ideas :

### Sampling

If your need to anonymize data for testing purpose, chances are that a smaller
subset of your database will be enough. In that case, you can easily speed up
the anonymization by downsizing the volume of data. There are mulitple way to
extract a sample of database :

* [TABLESAMPLE](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/sql-select.html)
* [pg_sample](https://github.com/mla/pg_sample)



### Materialized Views

Dynamic masking is not always required ! In some cases, it is more efficient 
to build [Materialized Views] instead.

For instance:

```SQL
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW masked_customer AS
SELECT
    id,
    anon.random_last_name() AS name,
    anon.random_date_between('01/01/1920'::DATE,now()) AS birth,
    fk_last_order,
    store_id
FROM customer;
```

[Materialized Views]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/sql-creatematerializedview.html




Links
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Dynamic Data Masking With MS SQL Server
  <https://docs.microsoft.com/fr-fr/sql/relational-databases/security/dynamic-data-masking>

* Citus : Using search_path and views to hide columns for reporting with Postgres
  <https://www.citusdata.com/blog/2018/07/03/masking-columns-in-postgresql/>

* MariaDB : Masking with maxscale
  <https://mariadb.com/kb/en/mariadb-enterprise/mariadb-maxscale-21-masking/>

* pgsync
  <https://github.com/ankane/pgsync>

Commit message:

[doc] postgresql-devel is required for make

README.md, after:


![PostgreSQL Anonymizer](postgresql_anonymizer.banner.gif)

Anonymizing and Masking Data with PostgreSQL
===============================================================================

`postgresql_anonymizer` is an extension to mask or replace 
[personally identifiable information] (PII) or commercially sensitive data from 
a PostgreSQL database.

The projet is aiming toward a **declarative approach** of anonymization. This
means we're trying to extend PostgreSQL Data Definition Language (DDL) in
order to specify the anonymization strategy inside the table definition itself.

The extension can be used to put dynamic masks on certain users or permanently 
modify sensitive data. Various masking techniques are available : randomization, 
partial scrambling or custom rules.

Read the [Concepts] section for more details.

[Concepts]: #Concepts
[personally identifiable information]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personally_identifiable_information


Warning
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*This is projet is at an early stage of development and should used carefully.* 

I need your feedback and ideas ! Let me know what you think of this tool,how it
fits your needs and what features are missing.

You can either [open an issue] or send a message at <daamien@gmail.com>.

[open an issue]: https://gitlab.com/daamien/postgresql_anonymizer/issues

Example
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

```sql
=# CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS anon CASCADE;

=# SELECT anon.load();

=# SELECT * FROM customer;
 id  |   full_name      |   birth    |    employer   | zipcode | fk_shop
-----+------------------+------------+---------------+---------+---------
 911 | Chuck Norris     | 1940-03-10 | Texas Rangers | 75001   | 12
 112 | David Hasselhoff | 1952-07-17 | Baywatch      | 90001   | 423

=# UPDATE customer
-# SET
-#   full_name=anon.random_first_name() || ' ' || anon.random_last_name(),
-#   birth=anon.random_date_between('01/01/1920'::DATE,now()),
-#   employer=anon.random_company(),
-#   zipcode=anon.random_zip()
-# ;

=# SELECT * FROM customer;
 id  |     full_name     |   birth    |     employer     | zipcode | fk_shop
-----+-------------------+------------+------------------+---------+---------
 911 | michel Duffus     | 1970-03-24 | Body Expressions | 63824   | 12
 112 | andromache Tulip  | 1921-03-24 | Dot Darcy        | 73231   | 423
```

Declarative Data Masking
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


```sql
=# SELECT * FROM people;
  id  |      name      |   phone
------+----------------+------------
 T800 | Schwarzenegger | 0609110911
(1 row)
```

STEP 1 : Activate the masking engine

```sql
=# CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS anon CASCADE;
=# SELECT anon.mask_init();
```

STEP 2 : Declare a masked user

```sql
=# CREATE ROLE skynet;
=# COMMENT ON ROLE skynet IS 'MASKED';
```

STEP 3 : Declare the masking rules

```sql
=# COMMENT ON COLUMN people.name IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION anon.random_last_name()';

=# COMMENT ON COLUMN people.phone IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION anon.partial(phone,2,$$******$$,2)';
```

STEP 4 : Connect with the masked user

```sql
=# \! psql test -U skynet -c 'SELECT * FROM people;'
  id  |   name   |   phone
------+----------+------------
 T800 | Nunziata | 06******11
(1 row)
```

Requirements
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This extension is officially supported on PostgreSQL 9.6 and later.
It should also work on PostgreSQL 9.5 with a bit of hacking. 
See [NOTES.md](NOTES.md) for more details.

It requires an extension named `tsm_system_rows`, which is delivered by the
`postgresql-contrib` package of the main linux distributions.

Install
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### With [PGXN](https://pgxn.org/) :

```console
sudo apt install pgxnclient (or pip install pgxn)
sudo pgxn install postgresql_anonymizer
```

### From source :

First you need to install the postgresql development libraries. On most
distribution, this is available through a package called `postgresql-devel`
or `postgresql-server-dev`.

Then build the project like any other PostgreSQL extension:

```console
make
sudo make install
```


How To Use
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Load the extension in your database like this:

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS anon CASCADE;
SELECT anon.load();
```

The `load()` function will charge a default dataset of random data ( lists
names, cities, etc. ). If you want to use your own dataset, you can load
custom CSV files with `load('/path/to/custom_cvs_files/')`

**You now have access to the following functions :**

### Generic data

* anon.random_date() returns a date
* anon.random_date_between(d1,d2) returns a date between `d1` and `d2`
* anon.random_int_between(i1,i2) returns an integer between `i1` and `i2`
* anon.random_string(n) returns a TEXT value containing `n` letters

### Personal data

* anon.random_first_name() returns a generic first name
* anon.random_last_name() returns a generic last name
* anon.random_email() returns a valid email address
* anon.random_zip() returns a 5-digit code
* anon.random_city() returns an existing city
* anon.random_city_in_country(c) returns a city in country `c`
* anon.random_region() returns an existing region
* anon.random_region_in_country(c) returns a region in country `c`
* anon.random_country() returns a country
* anon.random_phone(p) return a 8-digit phone with `p` as a prefix

### Company data

* anon.random_company() returns a generic company name
* anon.random_iban() returns a valid IBAN
* anon.random_siret() returns a valid SIRET
* anon.random_siren() returns a valid SIREN


Upgrade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently there's no way to upgrade easily from a version to another.
The operation `ALTER EXTENSION ... UPDATE ...` is not supported.

You need to drop and recreate the extension after every upgrade.


Concepts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Two main strategies are used:

* **Dynamic Masking** offers an altered view of the real data without
  modifying it. Some users may only read the masked data, others may access
  the authentic version.

* **Permanent Destruction** is the definitive action of substituting the
  sensitive information with uncorrelated data. Once processed, the authentic
  data cannot be retrieved.

The data can be altered with several techniques:

1. **Deletion** or **Nullification** simply removes data.

2. **Static Subtitution** consistently replaces the data with a generic
   values. For instance: replacing all values of TEXT column with the value
   "CONFIDENTIAL".

3. **Variance** is the action of "shifting" dates and numeric values. For
   example, by applying a +/- 10% variance to a salary column, the dataset will
   remain meaningful.

4. **Encryption** uses an encryption algorithm and requires a private key. If
   the key is stolen, authentic data can be revealed.

5. **Shuffling** mixes values within the same columns. This method is open to
   being reversed if the shuffling algorithm can be deciphered.

6. **Randomization** replace sensitive data with **random-but-plausible**
   values. The goal is to avoid any identification from the data record while
   remaining suitable for testing, data analysis and data processing.

7. **Partial scrambling** is similar to static substitution but leaves out some
   part of the data. For instance : a credit card number can be replaced by
   '40XX XXXX XXXX XX96'

8. **Custom rules** are designed to alter data following specific needs. For
   instance, randomizing simultanously a zipcode and a city name while keeping
   them coherent.

For now, this extension is especially focusing on  **randomization** and
**Partial Scrambling** and **Custom Rules** but it should be easy to implement
other methods as well.




Performance
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

So far, we've done very few performance tests. Depending on the size of your
data set and number of columns your need to anonymize, you might end up with a
very slow process.

Here's some ideas :

### Sampling

If your need to anonymize data for testing purpose, chances are that a smaller
subset of your database will be enough. In that case, you can easily speed up
the anonymization by downsizing the volume of data. There are mulitple way to
extract a sample of database :

* [TABLESAMPLE](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/sql-select.html)
* [pg_sample](https://github.com/mla/pg_sample)



### Materialized Views

Dynamic masking is not always required ! In some cases, it is more efficient 
to build [Materialized Views] instead.

For instance:

```SQL
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW masked_customer AS
SELECT
    id,
    anon.random_last_name() AS name,
    anon.random_date_between('01/01/1920'::DATE,now()) AS birth,
    fk_last_order,
    store_id
FROM customer;
```

[Materialized Views]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/sql-creatematerializedview.html




Links
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Dynamic Data Masking With MS SQL Server
  <https://docs.microsoft.com/fr-fr/sql/relational-databases/security/dynamic-data-masking>

* Citus : Using search_path and views to hide columns for reporting with Postgres
  <https://www.citusdata.com/blog/2018/07/03/masking-columns-in-postgresql/>

* MariaDB : Masking with maxscale
  <https://mariadb.com/kb/en/mariadb-enterprise/mariadb-maxscale-21-masking/>

* pgsync
  <https://github.com/ankane/pgsync>
