docs/tutorials/3-anonymous_dumps.md, before:

# 3- Anonymous Dumps

> In many situation, what we want is simply to export the anonymized
> data into another database (for testing or to produce statistics).
> This is what **pg_dump_anon** does!

## The Story

Paul has a website and a comment section where customers can express
their views.

He hired a web agency to develop a new design for his website. The
agency asked for a SQL export (dump) of the current website database.
Paul wants to `clean` the database export and remove any personal
information contained in the comment section.

## How it works

![](../images/anon-Dump.drawio.png)

## Learning Objective

-   Extract the anonymized data from the database
-   Write a custom masking function to handle a JSON field.

## Load the data

``` sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS website_comment CASCADE;


CREATE TABLE website_comment (id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
                                        message JSONB);
```

``` sql
INSERT INTO website_comment
VALUES (1, json_build_object('meta', json_build_object('name', 'Lee Perry', 'ip_addr','40.87.29.113'), 'content', 'Hello Nasty!')),
       (2, json_build_object('meta', json_build_object('name', '', 'email', 'biz@bizmarkie.com'), 'content', 'Great Shop')),
       (3,json_build_object('meta', json_build_object('name','Jimmy'), 'content','Hi ! This is me, Jimmy James'));
```

Check the content of the website comments:

``` sql
SELECT message->'meta'->'name' AS name,
       message->'content' AS content
FROM website_comment
ORDER BY id ASC
```

| name      | content                      |
|-----------|------------------------------|
| Lee Perry | Hello Nasty!                 |
|           | Great Shop                   |
| Jimmy     | Hi ! This is me, Jimmy James |

## Activate the extension

``` sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS anon;
```

## Masking a JSON column

The `comment` field is filled with personal information and the fact the
field does not have a standard schema makes our tasks harder.

**In general, unstructured data are difficult to mask**.

As we can see, web visitors can write any kind of information in the
comment section. Our best option is to remove this key entirely because
there's no way to extract personal data properly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

We can *clean* the comment column simply by removing the `content` key!

``` sql
SELECT message - ARRAY['content']
FROM website_comment
WHERE id=1;
```

| ?column?                                                             |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Lee Perry\', \'ip_addr\': \'40.87.29.113\'}} |

------------------------------------------------------------------------

First let's create a dedicated schema and declare it as trusted. This
means the `anon` extension will accept the functions located in this
schema as valid masking functions. Only a superuser should be able to
add functions in this schema.

``` sql
CREATE SCHEMA IF NOT EXISTS my_masks;

SECURITY LABEL
FOR anon ON SCHEMA my_masks IS 'TRUSTED';
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Now we can write a function that remove the message content:

``` sql
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION my_masks.remove_content(j JSONB) RETURNS JSONB AS $func$ SELECT j - ARRAY['content'] $func$ LANGUAGE SQL ;
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Let's try it!

``` sql
SELECT my_masks.remove_content(message)
FROM website_comment
```

| remove_content                                                       |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Lee Perry\', \'ip_addr\': \'40.87.29.113\'}} |
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'\', \'email\': \'biz@bizmarkie.com\'}}       |
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Jimmy\'}}                                    |

And now we can use it in a masking rule:

``` sql
SECURITY LABEL
FOR anon ON COLUMN website_comment.message IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION my_masks.remove_content(message)';
```

``` sql
CREATE ROLE dump_anon LOGIN PASSWORD 'CHANGEME';


ALTER ROLE dump_anon
SET anon.transparent_dynamic_masking TO TRUE;

SECURITY LABEL
FOR anon ON ROLE dump_anon IS 'MASKED';

GRANT pg_read_all_data TO dump_anon;
```

For convenience, add a new entry in the `.pgpass` file.

``` console
cat > ~/.pgpass << EOL
*:*:boutique:dump_anon:CHANGEME
EOL
```

Finally we can export an **anonymous dump** of the table with `pg_dump`:

``` bash
export PATH=$PATH:$(pg_config --bindir)
export PGHOST=localhost
pg_dump -U dump_anon boutique --table=website_comment > /tmp/dump.sql
```

## Exercices

### E301 - Dump the anonymized data into a new database

Create a database named `boutique_anon` and transfer the entire database
into it.

### E302 - Pseudonymize the meta fields of the comments

Pierre plans to extract general information from the metadata. For
instance, he wants to calculate the number of unique visitors based on
the different IP addresses. But an IP address is an **indirect
identifier**, so Paul needs to anonymize this field while maintaining
the fact that some values appear multiple times.

Replace the `remove_content` function with a better one called
`clean_comment` that will:

-   Remove the content key
-   Replace the `name` value with a fake last name
-   Replace the `ip_address` value with its MD5 signature
-   Nullify the `email` key

> HINT: Look at the `jsonb_set()` and `jsonb_build_object()` functions

## Solutions

### S301

``` bash
export PATH=$PATH:$(pg_config --bindir)
export PGHOST=localhost
dropdb -U paul --if-exists boutique_anon
createdb -U paul boutique_anon --owner paul
pg_dump -U dump_anon boutique | psql -U paul --quiet boutique_anon
```

``` bash
export PGHOST=localhost
psql -U paul boutique_anon -c 'SELECT COUNT(*) FROM company'
```

### S302

``` sql
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION my_masks.clean_comment(message JSONB) RETURNS JSONB VOLATILE LANGUAGE SQL AS $func$ SELECT jsonb_set( message, ARRAY['meta'], jsonb_build_object( 'name',anon.fake_last_name(), 'ip_address', md5((message->'meta'->'ip_addr')::TEXT), 'email', NULL ) ) - ARRAY['content']; $func$;
```

``` sql
SELECT my_masks.clean_comment(message)
FROM website_comment;
```

| clean_comment |
|----|
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Marshall\', \'email\': None, \'ip_address\': \'1d8cbcdef988d55982af1536922ddcd1\'}} |
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Campbell\', \'email\': None, \'ip_address\': None}} |
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Dodson\', \'email\': None, \'ip_address\': None}} |

``` sql
SECURITY LABEL
FOR anon ON COLUMN website_comment.message IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION my_masks.clean_comment(message)';
```

Commit message:

fix pg_dump_anon deprecated message, explain that user can use their own exporter role to do the job

docs/tutorials/3-anonymous_dumps.md, after:

# 3- Anonymous Dumps

> In many situation, what we want is simply to export the anonymized
> data into another database (for testing or to produce statistics).
> This is what **pg_dump_anon** did!.
> In the last version, pg_dump_anon is now deprecated. Use pg_dump instead.

## The Story

Paul has a website and a comment section where customers can express
their views.

He hired a web agency to develop a new design for his website. The
agency asked for a SQL export (dump) of the current website database.
Paul wants to `clean` the database export and remove any personal
information contained in the comment section.

## How it works

![](../images/anon-Dump.drawio.png)

## Learning Objective

-   Extract the anonymized data from the database
-   Write a custom masking function to handle a JSON field.

## Load the data

``` sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS website_comment CASCADE;


CREATE TABLE website_comment (id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
                                        message JSONB);
```

``` sql
INSERT INTO website_comment
VALUES (1, json_build_object('meta', json_build_object('name', 'Lee Perry', 'ip_addr','40.87.29.113'), 'content', 'Hello Nasty!')),
       (2, json_build_object('meta', json_build_object('name', '', 'email', 'biz@bizmarkie.com'), 'content', 'Great Shop')),
       (3,json_build_object('meta', json_build_object('name','Jimmy'), 'content','Hi ! This is me, Jimmy James'));
```

Check the content of the website comments:

``` sql
SELECT message->'meta'->'name' AS name,
       message->'content' AS content
FROM website_comment
ORDER BY id ASC
```

| name      | content                      |
|-----------|------------------------------|
| Lee Perry | Hello Nasty!                 |
|           | Great Shop                   |
| Jimmy     | Hi ! This is me, Jimmy James |

## Activate the extension

``` sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS anon;
```

## Masking a JSON column

The `comment` field is filled with personal information and the fact the
field does not have a standard schema makes our tasks harder.

**In general, unstructured data are difficult to mask**.

As we can see, web visitors can write any kind of information in the
comment section. Our best option is to remove this key entirely because
there's no way to extract personal data properly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

We can *clean* the comment column simply by removing the `content` key!

``` sql
SELECT message - ARRAY['content']
FROM website_comment
WHERE id=1;
```

| ?column?                                                             |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Lee Perry\', \'ip_addr\': \'40.87.29.113\'}} |

------------------------------------------------------------------------

First let's create a dedicated schema and declare it as trusted. This
means the `anon` extension will accept the functions located in this
schema as valid masking functions. Only a superuser should be able to
add functions in this schema.

``` sql
CREATE SCHEMA IF NOT EXISTS my_masks;

SECURITY LABEL
FOR anon ON SCHEMA my_masks IS 'TRUSTED';
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Now we can write a function that remove the message content:

``` sql
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION my_masks.remove_content(j JSONB) RETURNS JSONB AS $func$ SELECT j - ARRAY['content'] $func$ LANGUAGE SQL ;
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Let's try it!

``` sql
SELECT my_masks.remove_content(message)
FROM website_comment
```

| remove_content                                                       |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Lee Perry\', \'ip_addr\': \'40.87.29.113\'}} |
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'\', \'email\': \'biz@bizmarkie.com\'}}       |
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Jimmy\'}}                                    |

And now we can use it in a masking rule:

``` sql
SECURITY LABEL
FOR anon ON COLUMN website_comment.message IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION my_masks.remove_content(message)';
```

We create a specific role to do the dump `anon_dumper`, of course you can use an other one. Avoid using a personal account for this kind of action.
``` sql
CREATE ROLE dump_anon LOGIN PASSWORD 'CHANGEME';


ALTER ROLE dump_anon
SET anon.transparent_dynamic_masking TO TRUE;

SECURITY LABEL
FOR anon ON ROLE dump_anon IS 'MASKED';

GRANT pg_read_all_data TO dump_anon;
```

For convenience, add a new entry in the `.pgpass` file.

``` console
cat > ~/.pgpass << EOL
*:*:boutique:dump_anon:CHANGEME
EOL
```

Finally we can export an **anonymous dump** of the table with `pg_dump`:

``` bash
export PATH=$PATH:$(pg_config --bindir)
export PGHOST=localhost
pg_dump -U dump_anon boutique --table=website_comment > /tmp/dump.sql
```

## Exercices

### E301 - Dump the anonymized data into a new database

Create a database named `boutique_anon` and transfer the entire database
into it.

### E302 - Pseudonymize the meta fields of the comments

Pierre plans to extract general information from the metadata. For
instance, he wants to calculate the number of unique visitors based on
the different IP addresses. But an IP address is an **indirect
identifier**, so Paul needs to anonymize this field while maintaining
the fact that some values appear multiple times.

Replace the `remove_content` function with a better one called
`clean_comment` that will:

-   Remove the content key
-   Replace the `name` value with a fake last name
-   Replace the `ip_address` value with its MD5 signature
-   Nullify the `email` key

> HINT: Look at the `jsonb_set()` and `jsonb_build_object()` functions

## Solutions

### S301

``` bash
export PATH=$PATH:$(pg_config --bindir)
export PGHOST=localhost
dropdb -U paul --if-exists boutique_anon
createdb -U paul boutique_anon --owner paul
pg_dump -U dump_anon boutique | psql -U paul --quiet boutique_anon
```

``` bash
export PGHOST=localhost
psql -U paul boutique_anon -c 'SELECT COUNT(*) FROM company'
```

### S302

``` sql
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION my_masks.clean_comment(message JSONB) RETURNS JSONB VOLATILE LANGUAGE SQL AS $func$ SELECT jsonb_set( message, ARRAY['meta'], jsonb_build_object( 'name',anon.fake_last_name(), 'ip_address', md5((message->'meta'->'ip_addr')::TEXT), 'email', NULL ) ) - ARRAY['content']; $func$;
```

``` sql
SELECT my_masks.clean_comment(message)
FROM website_comment;
```

| clean_comment |
|----|
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Marshall\', \'email\': None, \'ip_address\': \'1d8cbcdef988d55982af1536922ddcd1\'}} |
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Campbell\', \'email\': None, \'ip_address\': None}} |
| {\'meta\': {\'name\': \'Dodson\', \'email\': None, \'ip_address\': None}} |

``` sql
SECURITY LABEL
FOR anon ON COLUMN website_comment.message IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION my_masks.clean_comment(message)';
```
