docs/SECURITY.md, before:

Security
===============================================================================

Permissions
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here's an overview of what users can do depending on the role they have:

| Action                                   | Superuser | Owner | Masked Role |
| :--------------------------------------- | :-------: | :---: | :---------: |
| Create the extension                     |    Yes    |       |             |
| Drop the extension                       |    Yes    |       |             |
| Init the extension                       |    Yes    |       |             |
| Reset the extension                      |    Yes    |       |             |
| Configure the extension                  |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Start dynamic masking                    |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Stop  dynamic masking                    |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Create a table                           |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Declare a masking rule                   |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Insert, delete, update a row             |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Static Masking                           |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Select the real data                     |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Regular Dump                             |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Select the masked data                   |    Yes    |  Yes  |     Yes     |
| Anonymous Dump                           |    Yes    |  Yes  |     Yes     |




Security context of the functions
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most of the functions of this extension are declared with the `SECURITY INVOKER`
tag.
This means that these functions are executed with the privileges of the user
that calls them. This is an important restriction.

This extension contains another few functions declared with the tag
`SECURITY DEFINER`.

Commit message:

[doc] restrict_to_trusted_schemas

docs/SECURITY.md, after:

Security
===============================================================================


Permissions
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here's an overview of what users can do depending on the role they have:

| Action                                   | Superuser | Owner | Masked Role |
| :--------------------------------------- | :-------: | :---: | :---------: |
| Create the extension                     |    Yes    |       |             |
| Drop the extension                       |    Yes    |       |             |
| Init the extension                       |    Yes    |       |             |
| Reset the extension                      |    Yes    |       |             |
| Configure the extension                  |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Start dynamic masking                    |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Stop  dynamic masking                    |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Create a table                           |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Declare a masking rule                   |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Insert, delete, update a row             |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Static Masking                           |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Select the real data                     |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Regular Dump                             |    Yes    |  Yes  |             |
| Select the masked data                   |    Yes    |  Yes  |     Yes     |
| Anonymous Dump                           |    Yes    |  Yes  |     Yes     |



Limit masking filters only to trusted schemas
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The database owner is allowed to declare masking rules. He or She can also
create a function containing arbitrary code and use this function inside a
masking rule. In certain circumstances, the database owner can "trick" a
superuser into querying a masked table and thus executing the arbitrary code.

To prevent this, the superusers can configure the parameters below :

```ini
anon.restrict_to_trusted_schemas = on
anon.trusted_schemas = pg_catalog, anon
```

With this setting, the database owner can only masking functions that are
located in the trusted schemas which are controlled by the superusers.

See the [Configure] section for more details.

[Configure]: configure/

Security context of the functions
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most of the functions of this extension are declared with the `SECURITY INVOKER`
tag.
This means that these functions are executed with the privileges of the user
that calls them. This is an important restriction.

This extension contains another few functions declared with the tag
`SECURITY DEFINER`.
