docs/static_masking.md, before:

Permanently remove sensitive data
===============================================================================

Sometimes, it is useful to transform directly the original dataset. You can
do that with different methods:

* [Applying masking rules](#applying-masking-rules)
* [Shuffling a column](#shuffling)
* [Adding noise to a column](#adding-noise-to-a-column)


These methods will destroy the original data. Use with care.

Applying masking rules
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can permanently apply the [masking rules] of a database with
`anon.anonymize_database()`.

[masking rules]: declare_masking_rules.md


Let's use a basic example :

```sql

CREATE TABLE customer(
  id SERIAL,
  full_name TEXT,
  birth DATE,
  employer TEXT,
  zipcode TEXT,
  fk_shop INTEGER
);

INSERT INTO customer
VALUES
(911,'Chuck Norris','1940-03-10','Texas Rangers', '75001',12),
(312,'David Hasselhoff','1952-07-17','Baywatch', '90001',423)
;

SELECT * FROM customer;

 id  |   full_name      |   birth    |    employer   | zipcode | fk_shop
-----+------------------+------------+---------------+---------+---------
 911 | Chuck Norris     | 1940-03-10 | Texas Rangers | 75001   | 12
 112 | David Hasselhoff | 1952-07-17 | Baywatch      | 90001   | 423

```

Step 1: Load the extension :

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS anon CASCADE;
SELECT anon.init();
```

Step 2: Declare the masking rules

```sql
SECURITY LABEL FOR anon ON COLUMN customer.full_name
IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION anon.fake_first_name() || '' '' || anon.fake_last_name()';

SECURITY LABEL FOR anon ON COLUMN customer.employer
IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION anon.fake_company()';

SECURITY LABEL FOR anon ON COLUMN customer.zipcode
IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION anon.random_zip()';
```


Step 3: Replace authentic data in the masked columns :

```sql
SELECT anon.anonymize_database();

SELECT * FROM customer;

 id  |  full_name  |   birth    |      employer       | zipcode | fk_shop
-----+-------------+------------+---------------------+---------+---------
 911 | jesse Kosel | 1940-03-10 | Marigold Properties | 62172   |      12
 312 | leolin Bose | 1952-07-17 | Inventure           | 20026   |     423

```



You can also use `anonymize_table()` and `anonymize_column()` to remove data from
a subset of the database :

```sql
SELECT anon.anonymize_table('customer');
SELECT anon.anonymize_column('customer','zipcode');
```

**WARNING** : **Static masking is a slow process**. The principle of
static masking is to update all lines of all tables containing at
least one masked column. This basically means that PostgreSQL will rewrite
all the data on disk. Depending on the database size, the hardware and the
instance config, it may be faster to export the anonymized data (See
[Anonymous Dumps] ) and reload it into the database.


Shuffling
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 **Shuffling** mixes values within the same columns.

* `anon.shuffle_column(shuffle_table, shuffle_column, primary_key)` will rearrange
  all values in a given column. You need to provide a primary key of the table.

This is useful for foreign keys because referential integrity will be kept.

**IMPORTANT:**  `shuffle_column()` is not a [masking function] because it works
"vertically" : it will modify all the values of a column at once.

[masking function]: masking_functions.md

Adding noise to a column
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


There are also some functions that can add noise on an entire column:

* `anon.add_noise_on_numeric_column(table, column, ratio)` if ratio = 0.33, all
  values of the column will be randomly shifted with a ratio of +/- 33%

* `anon.add_noise_on_datetime_column(table, column, interval)` if interval = '2 days',
  all values of the column will be randomly shifted by +/- 2 days

**IMPORTANT** : These noise functions are vulnerable to a form of
repeat attack. See `demo/noise_reduction_attack.sql` for more details.

Commit message:

Rewrite the static masking functions in Rust

docs/static_masking.md, after:

Permanently remove sensitive data
===============================================================================

Sometimes, it is useful to transform directly the original dataset. You can
do that with different methods:

* [Applying masking rules](#applying-masking-rules)
* [Shuffling a column](#shuffling)
* [Adding noise to a column](#adding-noise-to-a-column)


These methods will destroy the original data. Use with care.

Applying masking rules
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can permanently apply the [masking rules] of a database with
`anon.anonymize_database()`.

[masking rules]: declare_masking_rules.md


Let's use a basic example :

```sql

CREATE TABLE customer(
  id SERIAL,
  full_name TEXT,
  birth DATE,
  employer TEXT,
  zipcode TEXT,
  fk_shop INTEGER
);

INSERT INTO customer
VALUES
(911,'Chuck Norris','1940-03-10','Texas Rangers', '75001',12),
(312,'David Hasselhoff','1952-07-17','Baywatch', '90001',423)
;

SELECT * FROM customer;

 id  |   full_name      |   birth    |    employer   | zipcode | fk_shop
-----+------------------+------------+---------------+---------+---------
 911 | Chuck Norris     | 1940-03-10 | Texas Rangers | 75001   | 12
 112 | David Hasselhoff | 1952-07-17 | Baywatch      | 90001   | 423

```

Step 1: Load the extension :

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS anon CASCADE;
SELECT anon.init();
```

Step 2: Declare the masking rules

```sql
SECURITY LABEL FOR anon ON COLUMN customer.full_name
IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION anon.fake_first_name() || '' '' || anon.fake_last_name()';

SECURITY LABEL FOR anon ON COLUMN customer.employer
IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION anon.fake_company()';

SECURITY LABEL FOR anon ON COLUMN customer.zipcode
IS 'MASKED WITH FUNCTION anon.random_zip()';
```


Step 3: Replace authentic data in the masked columns :

```sql
SELECT anon.anonymize_database();

SELECT * FROM customer;

 id  |  full_name  |   birth    |      employer       | zipcode | fk_shop
-----+-------------+------------+---------------------+---------+---------
 911 | jesse Kosel | 1940-03-10 | Marigold Properties | 62172   |      12
 312 | leolin Bose | 1952-07-17 | Inventure           | 20026   |     423

```



You can also use `anonymize_table()` and `anonymize_column()` to remove data from
a subset of the database :

```sql
SELECT anon.anonymize_table('customer');
SELECT anon.anonymize_column('customer','zipcode');
```

**WARNING** : **Static masking is a slow process**. The principle of
static masking is to update all lines of all tables containing at
least one masked column. This basically means that PostgreSQL will rewrite
all the data on disk. Depending on the database size, the hardware and the
instance config, it may be faster to export the anonymized data (See
[Anonymous Dumps] ) and reload it into the database.

Static Masking and Multiple Masking Policies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using multiple masking policies, you can simply add the policy name at
the end of the static masking functions.

For instance, if you defined a masking policy named "gdpr", you can apply it with

```sql
SELECT anon.anonymize_table('customer','rgpd');
SELECT anon.anonymize_column('customer','zipcode','rgpd');
```

By default, there's a single masking policy named "anon".


Shuffling
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 **Shuffling** mixes values within the same columns.

* `anon.shuffle_column(shuffle_table, shuffle_column, primary_key)` will rearrange
  all values in a given column. You need to provide a primary key of the table.

This is useful for foreign keys because referential integrity will be kept.

**IMPORTANT:**  `shuffle_column()` is not a [masking function] because it works
"vertically" : it will modify all the values of a column at once.

[masking function]: masking_functions.md

Adding noise to a column
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


There are also some functions that can add noise on an entire column:

* `anon.add_noise_on_numeric_column(table, column, ratio)` if ratio = 0.33, all
  values of the column will be randomly shifted with a ratio of +/- 33%

* `anon.add_noise_on_datetime_column(table, column, interval)` if interval = '2 days',
  all values of the column will be randomly shifted by +/- 2 days

**IMPORTANT** : These noise functions are vulnerable to a form of
repeat attack. See `demo/noise_reduction_attack.sql` for more details.
